Ah yeah, I just got that one here. See if I got rid of it. Is that better?
Um...nope. Haha. Alright, now let's see if it's gone. It's gone? Yeah, it's
gone. Count to 5 for me, please. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Looks good. Yeah. Have I got it
right? Yeah, we got it. We got it, we got it. Test. Test. Test. Test. Alright.
alrighty you said it had been too cold out there didn't you? What here? No, it's
been very mild here okay we when we first arrived we thought it was a little
chilly until we
heard that Orlando though had minus 29 the previous night and then we didn't
think it was a chili
okay we've got the tape recorder rolling just one more time if you'd count to
three for me please oh how about one two three one two three looks good that's
that's where it's supposed to be louder if this is faint no that's that's pretty
good no we're far and beyond where we were as far as audio recording goes now we
do all sorts of mixing and junk with this in the studio after we get through
recording it I have every confidence in American know-how good all
right we're gonna go ahead and get started okay
All right. How did you get interested in writing? It was too long ago to
remember. I left school when I was 16 and wanted to be a writer then. I guess it
was something that I always enjoyed doing as a kid at school. The essays and the
story writing exercises you get. and when I left school, I told the world I was
going to be a writer and you could think it's a good idea until somebody said,
well, with all the accumulated wisdom and experience of 16 years, what are you
going to write about that the world is breathlessly waiting to hear? And I
hadn't thought about that and the answer was not a lot, so I went away into
engineering and electronics and computers and things like that for something
like 20 years. And I suppose the interest in writing probably never went away.
And 20-odd years later, that situation had changed a lot. I'd spent a lot of
that time. I started off as an electronics engineer and then a computer designer
and then went into selling computer systems. and not the blue boxes you see at
work that print out payrolls and things. I'm not talking about business
computers but the real-time scientific systems that might go into scientific
research laboratories connected up to instruments to collect all the data and
turn them into pictures on screens and the sort of computers you'd find in
particle accelerator installations or observatories. In other words, all my
customers were scientists, physicists, biologists, chemists, and so forth, and
the kinds of systems we're talking about ranged up to several million dollars,
and when somebody's buying a system of that size, it's not the kind of thing
that you sell in a one-half-hour sales call, and say, sign the paper, you're
frequently working with them for 12 maybe 18 months before a contract is
finalized and during that time you have to you know try and understand a lot of
what they're doing in to be able to put together and recommend the right sort of
system for for their needs and in other words you know you get to know a little
bit of what they're all doing I found it fascinating, a fascinating world that
they lived in.
You also get to know them socially, how they think, how they tick, what makes
them laugh. Very interesting as people. And I found 20 years later that there
were a lot of interesting things that were here to write about and form the
basis of stories. So I didn't particularly set out to be a science fiction
writer, I suppose I became one by accident. I just always wanted to write and
started writing stories about the little bit of life that I'd had some personal
experience of and was told I was a science fiction writer. And I said, how's
that? They said, well, the publisher is publishing it under their science
fiction imprint, so we said, you have to be. So I said, okay. And it kind of
started out like that. Okay. Could you hold for just a second here? I've got to
take care of a slight flutter in one of my machines. Okay, hang on. I'll be
right back with you. Okay. Still here. Okay. You've covered a lot of the
background already, so... Oh, is there a problem? I'm just getting a funny
scraping noise off a reel of tape, so it's not going to be really picking up
anyway, so we'll just leave it. Has it gone away? No, it's sitting there just
scraping away, but to heck with it. You've covered a lot of the background
stuff, like I said, so I think I'll go right into some other stuff.
Associating with the scientists as you were, I guess that gave you a lot of the
background material that you use in your stories. Yeah, well, that provided more
the trigger.
The stimulation to take an interest in that kind of work, I guess reading
provided a lot of it. But that kind of material is easy to read when you have a
vested interest in understanding it because you have business relationships that
will profit from that understanding. In other words, it's reading with a
purpose, a clear-cut purpose rather than just out of curiosity or a
way of killing time. So luckily it became a little more than that. Do you
usually do a lot of... Back up here. most of your stories I guess would be
called hard science fiction do you do a lot of research whenever you do write a
story? yeah I do I suppose I read quite a lot and I suppose the bulk of my
reading is non-fiction so even casual reading in a way becomes what might be
termed non-specific research in other words information that just gets stored
away and comes out later, although I didn't study it for any particular reason
at the time. But while I was, before I became a full-time writer, I was still
working in the computer business. I used to, I made use of my customers pretty
freely as consultants, which was kind of handy. I found that I had customers who
were brain surgeons and other customers who studied pieces of rock brought back
from the Apollo missions and other guys who were building or investigating
machine intelligence and just about any of the topics or the favorite themes of
science fiction that you could pick out of a hat the chances were sort of not 10
to 1 I had a customer specializing in that field and I just had to if I needed
some background information on a particular topic I could almost guarantee I had
a phone number in my diary is a guy who could talk all day about it. And they
love doing it as well, I used to call them, and they'd like to come and talk to
you tomorrow. Well, we're a little busy, but what's it about? Oh, I need some
help with the book I'm working on. Well, why didn't you say so? What time do you
want to show up? And they talk all day. And I think this is one of the
interesting
sides of selling computers into this kind of area. You can imagine some of these
specialists, they talk to bacteria all day long or whatever, and they end up
shut in the back rooms of universities. And maybe there are four people on the
planet they can talk to who understand their language. And sometimes they find
it hard to believe that somebody from the world outside that has walked in off
the street is sincerely interested to sit down and talk to them. He is curious
and wants to know what they're doing, wants to have it explained. It was a very
pleasant way to earn a living. You not only gain
customers in many instances, I found you gain friends as well. a very present
combination to build a life around where the things you like doing,
the kind of work that you like to do, the kind of activity that you like to do
is also part of a process of making friends and not only that, somebody's
prepared to pay you to do it. I found that a very pleasant situation. Your first
novel, in fact, I believe the first thing that you wrote was Inherit the Stars,
wasn't it? Yes, it was. It's a science fiction detective story. Yes. How did you
come to write that book? Well, I think that sums it up pretty well. it reflects
I think the way I see science which is indeed as a wonderful ongoing never
-ending detective story and I suppose I got a little bit dissatisfied with some
of the depictions of science and scientists that I'd seen in fiction I formed
the impression or the suspicion in some cases is that perhaps the people who've
written some of the fiction certainly had perhaps not worked in a scientific
field or spoken to a scientist for a long, long time, and maybe generations of
people had reinforced each other's clichés. Scientists were always eccentric,
and they wore what-colored shoes, and they drew cabbages that ate people, and
they wanted to conquer the world or something. And there are these kind of cute
public impressions as scientists as people who run down the street with no
clothes on shouting, Eureka.
or
have you read
phrases like it came to him in a flash and you read on and what came to him in a
flash would have been enough to keep Einstein busy for the next 20 years and
real science you know there are insights there are strokes of genius but the
overwhelming the building, the bulk of the work is done by a lot of unsung
heroes, a lot of people doing nothing really dramatic or exciting but just
meticulously sifting through details and collecting information for generations
and for centuries, all different parts of the world. And it's really like
putting together a huge jigsaw puzzle. Lots of people cutting out pieces and
twisting them around and every now and again, and somebody will take a huge
chunk in this corner and see that it fits with a huge chunk down there, and
that's a breakthrough. And so it goes on. It really is a detective story. I
think it's a far more exciting one than most detective fiction. I wanted to
write a story that attempted to depict it in this kind of way and hopefully
would convey some of the excitement that personally I feel when I look at this
whole thing. I think that I thought that yeah let's make it a detective story
but if we
if we want a detective mystery that is going to be sufficiently intriguing to
motivate a large proportion of the scientific community as happened in Inherit
the Stars we want something a little more original and exciting than bodies in
the library or footprints in the flower bed and so we invented Charlie and the
aliens, and the rest I suppose you know. Basically it was an attempt to depict
science as it is, or at least as I perceive it, and at the same time weave that
into a story that people who were non-scientists, non-specialists would find
stimulating and arousing for the curiosity, even if without trying to turn it
into a 250-page lab report or something like that. Yeah, I believe, I don't know
if I'm reading this into your work or not, but some of what I'm feeling is that
your writing is sort of almost a celebration of learning. the learning process?
Yes. I think it's one of the most exciting processes anybody can experience. I
think it's very sad that in large sections of our culture we should have evolved
the attitude that learning is something you endure until you leave school and
then it ceases with adulthood. I think education and living are just different
aspects of the same process that never ends?
In the minds of a lot of people, the two things seem to have separated out. And
for some reason, learning is looked upon as hard work and unpleasant and
something that you steer clear of unless you can't avoid it. I think that's
very, very sad. No reason why it should be so. So I think it's just a
consequence of cultural expectations. A lot of people expect it to be hard
working tedious and sure enough it is. In your stories, I've noticed that you
really flesh out the futures that you create with a lot of detail.
I lost my question. You were saying about the future? Yeah, let me just rephrase
it here. I notice in your stories that you really fleshed them out with a lot of
detail.
That's simply to just make the story more realistic.
I don't know that there's any particular purpose in doing that. I try and use as
much detail as I feel is needed to convey whatever meaning I'm trying to convey
at that particular part of the book.
In fact, some parts I gloss over very quickly because there's really not a lot
to say.
I don't know if you have any specific examples in mind that we could talk about
more particularly.
I think the short answer is I'd simply make descriptions, et cetera, as detailed
as I feel they need to be to say what I want to say. Yeah, I was remembering one
particular instance when Hunt is traveling from England to the United States and
he opens up his briefcase and plugs in his video phone to the plane and makes
this long distance call right there it seems so natural that
it just creates a very realistic atmosphere for your story. Yeah, I like to do
things like that I see what you mean by detail now, I think these kinds of
details do matter because because if we're putting a story into a futuristic
setting, I think the little details of background, such as if the guy needs to
make a phone tour, how does he go about it if he needs to rent a cab, these
matter because if the story is being told in the future the whole of the
background has to be consistently futuristic.
I've come across a number of instances which, in my opinion, are a little flawed
because, spelt with an AW a writer may have seized on a particular thought maybe
a new scientific idea or a machine or whatever develops that very well but kind
of gets hung up on it and in the background everything else that's going on
hasn't changed since 1980.
And trying to, I think, just stop typing for the five minutes it takes just to
think about a situation. The guy's going to make a phone call, just like stop
and think how he might make that. And think about it for five minutes and then
maybe show it in a way different to what would have been the impulsive thing to
do in the first couple of seconds. is worth the effort. I don't think it
radically changes the story, but it does give it that finishing polish, as it
were, at least in that sense. And I try to do this in all the stories, and I
find that readers like it. I think from the people who write to me and the
people that I meet, one of the gratifying things I observe in the readership
that I have is that very, you know, it is not confined to what might be termed
the hardcore science fiction reader who buys anything new that appears on the
science fiction section of the bookstore. But a lot of, I suppose, people who
might be termed younger professional people in their late 20s, 30s, 40s, in all
manner of professions, not necessarily to do with the sciences, teachers,
lawyers, doctors, so forth, who typically would say, gee, I used to read science
fiction when I was at college or when I was at university, but I kind of grew
out of it. I can't relate to Way Out Galaxies like years away anymore or aliens
running around with ray guns. Today I have a family, a career, a mortgage, my
feet are solidly on the surface of this planet. But they seem to like stories
that don't kind of try and take them to the other side of the universe a million
years from now, but maybe just stretch the future 20 or 30 years. And they find
names in the book like IBM and Davis and Boeing, familiar places, and it kind of
grabs them. They say, well, this I can relate to. It's the world that I live in
just stretched a little bit. The connection is not broken. The economics and the
politics have evolved from what I read in the papers. I can still see the
connections. And it could be the world my kids grow up in, and I like it. And if
it has that effect on that far-faster market of readership, then I'm perfectly
happy to continue doing that, in addition to the reason that I enjoy the stories
better myself for doing that. I wouldn't be misreading in saying you're an
optimistic person, would I? I think I am. I notice your stories tend to be
rather optimistic. Sure, why not?
Good question, why not? I think there's enough doom and gloom around. I try and
contribute something to counterbalance all that. I think it's needed. You
probably would hold a great hope for the human potential then. Four? Excuse me,
I missed the question. Okay. You probably would hold a great hope for the human
potential. Oh, I think it's unlimited. It doesn't guarantee we'll use
it correctly and wisely at all. There's no guarantee of that. But I have no
doubt that the potential exists and the choice is entirely up to us. And I think
that in itself is grounds for optimism. If it means that we're not pawns that
are pushed around by fate or magical, mystical forces, that we have no control
over our future, I think that would be a very depressing thought. I think it
underlies a lot of the philosophies that we hear expounded. Or, you know, an
excuse to quit trying, to write everything off as futile. I don't subscribe to
this at all. I think that in the same way that the individual's future lies in
his or her hands, and I think they have infinite potential to build upon if they
have a... I think the only resource that we're short of in some quarters is
positive thinking and the right attitude of mind, nothing else. And I think
collectively the same is true. i think that uh there is a human tendency to be
too conscious of our failings and our faults and our mistakes uh which have
happened it would be silly to deny that um but i think by and large we've
achieved some some remarkable and wonderful things as well and can continue to
do so and i think when i look at the bottom line of the balance sheet i'm pretty
proud to be a member in the human race.
Okay, we're just commenting on here. I happen to agree with you. Could you hold
for just a second here? We're going to shut the machine down. Zero just said go
ahead and continue. He just stopped and I had just stopped the machine to find
out what it was that he said. That was sort of redundant on my part. Okay, the
machine's cranked back up and... Business again? We're rolling again? Okay. In
your novel, Twice Upon a Time, you base the story around a device that can send
messages back in time to itself 24 hours in the past. Sure. And then by that
process just keep sending it back to itself and back to itself. Uh-huh. I've
been reading recently about several scientists who are speculating about real
possibilities of time travel. Yeah. Your novel really was written before those
came out. It's sort of prophetic in a way. Maybe that's where they got it from.
Well, I don't know whether it's prophetic or not. Well, as is elaborated in the
book itself, if something like that ever became a fact, there are some pretty
interesting problems that are going to have to be solved. and our ideas of logic
and cause and effect are going to have to undergo some pretty interesting
revisions, so I'm certainly not setting myself up as a prophet and saying yes,
it'll happen. Maybe, I don't know. I think history has shown that impossible or
it'll never happen are very dangerous phrases to use in any context. As far as I
was concerned, it was just a fun basis for a story, Certainly not an original
one. Although I did, I was trying, I don't suppose any of the things I've
written about have been original in essence. I'd try and approach them from
hopefully fresh and different angles. But for some time, for a number of years
in fact, before I wrote Thrice Upon a Time, I'd been wanting to write a time
travel book for a number of reasons. Firstly, I wanted to attempt to face up to
the paradoxes, the logical paradoxes. once and for all and answer them without
cop-outs, without convenient coincidences, and without obliging characters who
just happen to do the right thing to make everything come out the way the author
said.
And secondly, I wanted to get away from this kind of cliche of some kind of a
conjurer's box described or disguised as whatever that you jump into and you
jump out of and you're in some other time. We've seen too many conjurers' boxes
and it seemed to me unrealistic if I ever build a box like that and I thought it
was going to take me to another time I certainly wouldn't jump into it and press
the button. I would conduct a long series of tests and experiments first and
none of our heroes ever seem to do this. And it seemed to me reasonable to say,
if we're going to make the speculation of influencing the past, it seems to me
to be reasonable to speculate that if we're going to make that assumption
anyway, that before we move structured objects and people back into another
time, we probably learn how to inject energy first, and if you can send energy
back in time, you can obviously switch the energy on and off and modulate it and
send information. In other words, you can send messages to yourself if you like.
I didn't want it to be a million years or a billion years or some huge span of
time where really nothing that you did could make any difference. How about a
lab bench experiment? Ten minutes. You can just send a little signal back to
yourself 10 minutes ago and change what you've already done. This is
interesting. You're hard up against the paradoxes now. You can't find a way
around them or duck them. You've got to answer the question, what happens? The
logic of the whole situation becomes absolutely... It drives you to the point of
insanity trying to figure it out. I found the only way to do it was to think in
terms of the simplest possible lab bench experiment that you could devise and
strip away all the complications to just get the logic right and then elaborate
it back up to the level that would make a story interesting. And the simplest
situation that you can think of is a button and a lamp and when you push the
button the lamp comes on. It couldn't get much simpler than that. The only
different thing here is the lamp comes on ten seconds before you press the
button. Because the signal goes back in time. So the question is obvious. What
happens? I wait until the lamp comes on. Ten seconds later, it's time to press
the button. I'm not going to press it. Nobody could make me. I didn't want
mystical forces compelling people to do something they didn't want to do.
wanted to preserve human free will so what happens I don't press them up
conversely I can say well I the lamp didn't come on but I'm going to press them
up anyway just to the hell of it what happened so those are two situations one
being the inverse of the other and if you can explain what happens you can
answer any time travel paradox because every one is an elaboration of one of
those situations or the other And it's not good enough to, for example, to wait
for the lamp to come on and you say, you're not going to press the button and
you fold your arms and sit there. And just as the time is up, the door opens and
somebody strolls in and says, hey, what's this? And presses the button. That
doesn't get you out of it, because you're a scientist. You're going to repeat
your experiment under conditions where that could happen. You lock the door and
set it up again. You go out of the room and have the computer press the button.
But eventually you would test it time and time and time again. And if accidents
happen that got you out of a mess the first time, you could eliminate them the
next time. And eventually you have to face up to that question, what happens?
That's what I wanted to do. And the third thing I wanted to do was to tell a
story in which the time machine itself and the staggering conceptual changes
changes in physics and philosophy that are implied are relevant to the story
that's being told there an integral part of it if you took them away there
wouldn't be any story i think in too many stories uh time machines are used like
starships they're just a device a vehicle to get some characters into an unusual
environment and then tell a pretty routine story that was stolen from Greek
mythology or European medieval history, and the technology doesn't come into the
story at all. They could have gone there on a Greyhound bus. I didn't want to do
that. And so the story was about some physicists who had stumbled upon this
phenomenon and had realized that if what they were seeing meant what they
thought it meant, It meant that they could actually inject information into the
past and change the past with all the questions that implies. And they proceeded
to test this phenomenon and obtained some very, very strange results. And yet
they're convinced that, you know, behind all this, there is some consistent
system of super logic that does make sense and they're trying to figure out the
rules of it.
Of course, there's an unspoken or unwritten invitation for the reader to
participate. And again, I suppose it's a kind of detective story. Not so much a
whodunit, but how is it done? To see if the reader can figure out the rules
before the character's dead.
Yeah, it is something that I noticed when I was reading the novel, is that there
are no unresolved paradoxes in it. you do sew them all up neatly before the end
of the novel well that was one of the goals of writing the book yeah and uh i
think it worked because the people that have uh who seem to know what they're
talking about and have commented they've all seen pretty satisfied so that made
me pretty satisfied there are a couple of silly things in there which uh don't
really affect me the the the physics of the time machine there was a big fusion
part up in scotland and I don't know why due to a lapse of concentration on my
part in one chapter it had moved to another part of Scotland we'll fix that when
the book is next reprinted there was an eagle-eyed Scotsman wrote to me and
picked that out
it started off on the Solway Firth and ended up on the Murray Firth, or no, the
other way around I got it on the wrong Firth in one chapter well maybe for one
of your future novels you will have to explore matter transmitters yeah that's
not the possibility I did explore that in a short story I wrote called Assassin
which was in the Stella anthology series Stella number four this
was exploring the possibility of matter of course people instantly get somebody
from here to there but that what appears there is a copy of them telling that
you've now got two of them and if the other one decides to come back the same
way you're getting rapidly multiplying problems literally Teller Assassin was a
story that played around with that thought I must have missed that one Since
Teller 4 it came out a couple of years ago okay
you've written a sequel to Inherit the Stars called The Gentle Giants of
Ganymede that's right did you intend to follow the story in Inherit the Stars
with a sequel, or was that from reader demand or what? A bit of both. When I
wrote Inherit the Stars, I had three books in mind. I had a trilogy in mind. So
I put the hooks in... Although Inherit the Stars was a complete story in itself,
it didn't leave the reader hanging. It started and told and finished a story.
Nevertheless, there were a couple of hooks in there that invited some questions.
which, as it were, paved the way to a follow-up book.
And my thinking at the time was, I'll go that far, but I won't write the second
book until I have some feedback as to how the readers liked the first one. And I
got a lot of mail and they all liked it. And a lot of them said in their
letters, will there be a follow-up? They picked out the hooks. so I wrote The
Gentle Giants. And they wanted another one, and I did have a trilogy in mind
when I wrote it, and the third one in that series is now written. It's called
Giant Star, and it will be... It's a July title, so it should start to appear in
the bookstores around June. It's the third and last. There won't be any more in
that series. So it ties up a few of the loose ends, tells another story
continues with the characters we met in the previous two books both the
terrestrial and the alien characters and introduces some new ones and I don't
think there can be a fourth one because I don't think there's any more to be
said it wraps it all up
Are you working on any new projects? No I'm working on the as I say Giant Star
will be out in June, July, and I'm currently working on the one after that which
I don't have a title for yet because I always think of the title Blast. And I
don't know when it'll be on sale because I don't know when I'll finish it.
Probably sometime this spring. What type of story is it without giving away any
of the plot details? Well, it's... How can we sum it up?
But its premise is, well, the background to the story is that we're in the
second half of the next century. And some decades previously, in other words,
around the year 2020, a robot star probe was sent out
programmed to tour a number of stars and simply to search for habitable planets
and generally explore, send down surface probes, atmospheric probes and things
like that, radio everything back and the political situation on earth was
looking very very grave at that time, I am an optimistic that I can still invent
World War III scenarios for a story. You know, it's fiction after all. Optimism
may turn out to be unjustified yet. But towards
the closing years of this project, in other words, obviously, you don't build a
ship like that overnight. And when it was well along the way towards being
completed, it was modified to be capable of making people let me qualify that we
read a lot of stories about starships that go on long voyages that take maybe
centuries and inevitably they've got frozen bodies or bodies in suspended
animation or something like that but when you think about it it seems rather an
inefficient way to say if they're not doing anything the machines can fly the
ship the computers can get it there the people aren't doing anything about
except you know just just lying there freezing so why not let the machines fly
the ship and make the people when you get there if we look at the progress made
in molecular biology of genetic engineering in the last couple of decades, we
already manufactured quite complex organic molecules to specification such as
drugs and certain anesthetics If we just extrapolate that a little further,
who's to say you couldn't make a complete set of human DNA? In other words,
instead of sending bodies and all the support equipment to freeze them and
taking up all the space, why not just
store all the genetic information necessary to make people electronically in the
computers, and create them when you have found a planet that the instruments say
they could survive on. And, you know, let's imagine for sake of argument that 10
light-years away you found a planet. Well, if the robot ship got there and sent
back a signal saying started the experiment, well, 10 years later the signal
gets to Earth. And even if they responded instantly, the ship's been in orbit
for 20 years doing nothing, just waiting for a reply. Well, the ultimate test of
whether or not a planet is inhabitable is to set up a colony and try it. So we
could have used those 20 years. So here is the interesting possibility of a race
that evolved from a first generation of embryos that were created and nurtured
and raised by computers and robots, machine-raised race. and when you think
about it, the relationship you know, between the children and the machines does
not really have to be a cold and sinister one at all, it could be quite a
charming and amusing one and the interesting thoughts that the book starts to
play with is here's a race of kids that are being raised by
some very rational, direct down to earth entities who don't double talk or
deceive or have all these layers of human game playing that we have to contend
with and they're not being raised completely
without any exposure to the conditioning of conditioned adults with their
prejudices and hatred and taboos and a lot of the other the nonsenses that make
life so complicated in our society.
And also, they're not a primitive society, they're very high-technology
societies. They arrive with some of the most advanced equipment and technology
ever devised.
While they were in orbit and growing up through infancy, the machines were down
on the surface, preparing surface bases, manufacturing facilities and industries
and so forth so by the time they actually enter adolescence and the races the
generations I should say that follow thereafter all of their material needs are
provided by highly automated means in terms of their productivity relative to
their numbers everyone is a millionaire
let's imagine that a mission from earth eventually shows up
virtually a big mission a 20 year voyage maybe we're talking about a spaceship
that maybe houses 20,000 people virtually a space colony with engines with it's
government it's military it's church organization it's commercial institutions
the whole of society in miniature with its time-proved mechanisms for
controlling and subordinating a population, which traditionally a ruling elite,
through history, has imposed itself by restricting the flow of wealth and by
offering protection either from real or imagined threats. But how do you control
a race of millionaires who don't need your wealth. The idea of restricting
anything has never occurred to them. Of restricting the supply of anything, they
don't need you to protect them from anybody. And none of the tricks or the
psychology or the scare tactics work. So what happens when a race of machine
-raised people eventually collides with a race of people-raised people? And
that's really what the story's all about. Alright, let's hold for just a second
and crank the machine back up here. Okay.
I'll go ahead and ask the question, and we'll just splice this into this show
when we do it. In your novel, Two Faces of Tomorrow, you explore the future of
machine intelligence. how far away do you think we might be from intelligent
computers?
I don't know that I have an answer to that
Two Faces was not intended to be prophetic in any way nothing that I write in a
fictional sense is I simply sketch possibilities of what might be not
predictions of what will be putting a time limit it's an awkward thing to be
asked to do I'm sort of thinking about this my mind is going back over the
number of confident predictions that have been made in the past on various
topics that prove disastrously wrong either one way or the other
I see no reason in principle why
artificial systems of some kind not necessarily what we'd call computers in
other words electronics of some form inside a box of some form but simply man
-made system should not in principle be capable of all
of the feats that are performed by the human mind. In other words, thinking in
the sense that we normally use the word and all its connotations in everyday
conversations.
we have a system already in existence a physical system that can think the human
brain itself we could turn the question around a little and say if the human
brain is a physical system that can think is there any reason to suppose that
some other Thank you.